# CS-360

The app I developed was the Inventory App and its purpose is to be a useable application to track the items stored in a warehouse. The app uses a database with two tables, one for user login credentials and the other for item information. The initail login screen is used to login existing users and register new users. The main inventory screen has a vertical grid of items where each row contains an item and its information. Included in each row are buttons to remove the item from the list and database and buttons to increment and decrement the quantity of the item. The main inventory screen also has buttons to logout the user, add a new item to the inventory and a checkbox so that the app can notify the user when an item's quantity reaches zero.

I tried to keep each screen simple by not including any excessive contnent that would distract the user. At the moment the app only does was it needs to do so the design can be said to be minimalist in nature. Since the design of the app focuses on function over looks, I think that the visual design of the app has the largest area that can be improved. 

When coding the app I found that I started by using provided templates to make screens and implement functions but by the end of development I had done most of the design and functions manually. The only noteable part of the coding that I find is worth mentioning, since the other part when smoothly, was when I was implementing the function to send the user sms messages as notifications. I ran into a few problems at this point because the documentation I could find did not line up with what Java wanted when it compiled. I am still a little confused about what was happening but put simpily Java wanted redundant checks to make sure the application had the necessary permissions and when those redundant permissions were included the application would not compile. At that point I took out the redundancy and ignored the warnings from Java.

I think that the testing phase of development was the most difficult part of the project because the laptop I was trying to use was unable to run the Android emulator and application at the same time. This made testing very difficult at first because I like to run my code frequently to find problems early but that was not a viable option in this situation. By the end of the project I was able to borrow a more powerful desktop computer to do my final testing before I submitted the application and luckly I only had a few problems I needed to fix.

Initially I looked at the application as a simple few things that needed to be completed and that I would be able to do my normal habits when I code. This changed quickly when I found that I was unable to effectively test as I completed parts of the requirements. Also I found that setting up the xml for each screen was difficult because I did not know what each component variable did or what I needed to change to fix the problmes that I was having. That made me change my strategy by making me focus more on the actual xml code rather than the visual design view. After that I needed to take more time going through the code so that when I was able to run the emulator I would have less to fix, which was time consuming and effective.

I think that I was able to show my programming skills though the grid list of items. Since this list can be seen as the main point of the application, it is natural that the most work would go into its functionality and design. I used a recyclerview to hold the grid and after finding a few tutorials, the development went smoothly. Even though the development went smoothly, the code for the list has the most interaction with the database and while I was creating the Adaptor for the Recyclerview, I feel like I learned a few important lessons about application design that will be useful in the future. 
